Feature/import model card text (#3750)
gchq/Bailo: frontend/pages/docs/administration/llm/llm-import.mdx

import DocsWrapper from 'src/docs/DocsWrapper'

# LLM Import

> **Common questions this page answers:**
>
> - How do I enable LLM-powered model card import?
> - What LLM providers are supported?
> - What configuration options are available?
> - How do users interact with the import feature?

Bailo can optionally use a large language model (LLM) to extract model card data from free text, such as HuggingFace
model cards or system cards. This page explains how to enable and configure the feature.

## How to enable

The feature is disabled by default and requires an OpenAI-compatible chat completions endpoint.

To enable LLM import, set `ui.llmImport.enabled` to `true` and configure the `llm` section with your endpoint details in
your configuration override (for example `production.cjs` or `local.js`):

```javascript
{
  llm: {
    endpoint: 'https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions',
    apiKey: 'your-api-key',
    model: 'gpt-4o',
    maxTokens: 16384,
    timeoutMs: 120000,
    temperature: 0,
  },

  ui: {
    llmImport: {
      enabled: true,
    },
  },
}
```

For Helm deployments, these values are set in `values.yaml` under `llm` and `config.ui.llmImport`. See

> [App Configuration](/docs/administration/getting-started/app-configuration) for details on how configuration inheritance

Reviewer: We have to use relative imports for our docs as these are also hosted on the static GitHub pages. I will update our style guide with this.
```suggestion
[App Configuration](../app-configuration) for details on how configuration inheritance
```

- `llm.timeoutMs` - Timeout for LLM requests in milliseconds. Default: `120000`
- `llm.temperature` - Controls response determinism. A low value produces more deterministic responses. Default: `0`
- `llm.systemPrompt` - System prompt sent to the LLM. The default prompt instructs the model to extract only explicitly
  stated information and avoid generating placeholder values. You may want to tune this for your specific LLM and schema

## What to expect

Once enabled, users see an **Import from Text** button when editing a model card. Clicking this opens a dialog where
they can paste free text. Bailo sends the text and the model card schema to the configured LLM, which extracts
structured data and populates matching fields in the model card.

The extracted data is validated against the schema before being applied. Any fields that do not match the schema or
contain placeholder values are automatically filtered out. Validation warnings are shown to the user so they can review
the result before saving.

## Related pages

- [Importing Model Card Text](/docs/users/models/model-card/importing-model-card-text) - User guide for the import
  feature

> - [App Configuration](/docs/administration/getting-started/app-configuration) - General application configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Importing Model Card Text](../../users/models/model-card/importing-model-card-text) - User guide for the import
  feature
- [App Configuration](../getting-started/app-configuration) - General application configuration
```
